It’s an unfortunate reality that older adults, who have had more time to accumulate wealth, are at an increased risk of being targeted by some fraudsters—and of losing more money per fraud incident. However, the risk might not affect everyone equally. Inresearchby the FINRA Investor Education Foundation, certain behaviors and characteristics were found to be associated with an increased risk of fraud victimization in older adults.
Some of these risk factors include: engagement in activities that increase fraud exposure, such as opening all of your mail (especially unsolicited marketing materials or sweepstakes announcements), participating in conversations with telemarketers and answering unknown calls or texts; a preference for higher financial risk; loneliness; and financial fragility.
Reduce your exposure.Cut off contact before it starts by takingprecautionslike declining or blocking calls from unknown numbers, deleting messages from unknown senders, saying no to or hanging up on telemarketing offers, and throwing away junk mail. If you suspect a text message or email is spam, block and report the sender.
Ignore promises of big rewards.There are no guarantees with investing. Look out for red flags like promises of risk-free investing, guaranteed returns and high profits. Be especially wary if you were solicited for an investment when you weren’t even looking for one. Likewise, competitions and prize drawings, particularly if they require an upfront fee, are often fraudulent.
Check out sellers and products.Be alert to signs ofimposter investment scamsand, before you make any investment,research the seller and the productto make sure they’re legitimate and a good fit for you. You can look up financial professionals usingFINRA BrokerCheckto confirm whether they’re registered and/or licensed and view their employment history.
Stay connected.If you’re struggling with feelings of loneliness, try to bolster your existing relationships or seek new connections in person, rather than virtually. Unfortunately, random contact from strangers online or via text message is all too oftenthe start of a scam. Reach out to family and friends, if possible, whether in person or from a distance, and look for opportunities to participate in community programs and interact with others.
Monitor your emotions.Don’t make investing decisions in a rush or when your emotions are strong. Take time to think things over—or even better, talk over decisions with someone you trust.
Practice healthy financial habits.To bolster your sense of financial security, develop a budget for yourself and try to build anemergency fund. If you’re not sure where to start, look for money management webinars and/or financial counseling services offered by banks, libraries and local nonprofit organizations.
Increase your financial knowledge.Having a foundational knowledge about financial products and thebasics of investingcan make fraudulent offers easier to spot. If you have a brokerage account, make sure you knowhow to read your account statements, and take steps to protect your financial accounts like adding atrusted contact.
Stay informed about fraud.The more people hear about different scams, the less susceptible they are, which is a great reason to keep learning. Educate yourself about thered flags of fraudand current scams to be on the lookout for. Organizations likeAARPand theBBBcan help you learn about and track current scams. You can also look for coverage by your local news outlet, or discuss the matter with people you trust.
If you have a question or concern about your brokerage account or an investment recommendation, you can call FINRA’sSecurities Helpline for Seniorstoll-free at 844-574-3577. You can alsofile a complaintabout a brokerage firm with FINRA orsubmit a tipabout possible securities fraud to the SEC.
If you think you’ve been the victim of a scam, report it to law enforcement.
And if you’re experiencing emotional effects from fraud, there areresources availableto help.
Learn moreabout protecting your money.