The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, the North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA), and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) are jointly issuing this investor article to make investors aware of the increase of investment frauds involving the purported use of artificial intelligence (AI) and other emerging technologies.Individual investors should know that bad actors are using the growing popularity and complexity of AI to lure victims into scams.
Here are a few things to look out for to help you keep your money safe from these frauds:
First and foremost, investors should remember that federal, provincial and state securities laws generally require securities firms, professionals, exchanges and other investment platforms to be registered. A promoter’s lack of registration status should be taken as a prompt to do additional investigation before you invest any money. Numerous unregistered and unlicensed online investment platforms, as well as unlicensed and unregistered individuals and firms, are promoting AI trading systems that make unrealistic claims like, “Our proprietary AI trading system can’t lose!” or “Use AI to Pick Guaranteed Stock Winners!” In reality, these scammers are running investment schemes that seek to leverage the popularity of AI. Be wary of claims—even from registered firms and professionals—that AI can guarantee amazing investment returns.
Investment claims that sound too good to be true usually are. And remember: Fraudsters typically deploymultiple, sophisticated persuasion techniquesto make their pitches seem real. Claims of high guaranteed investment returns with little or no risk are classic warning signs of fraud.
Steps you can take to protect yourself:
It might seem exciting to invest in AI-focused companies that claim they’re leaders in developing or using this emerging technology. Companies might make claims about how AI will affect their business operations and drive profitability. While rapid technological change can create investment opportunities, bad actors often use the hype around new technological developments, like AI or crypto assets, to lure investors into schemes. These bad actors might use catchy AI-related buzzwords and make claims that their companies or business strategies guarantee huge gains. Red flags of these types of scams include high-pressure sales tactics by unregistered individuals, promises of quick profits, or claims of guaranteed returns with little or no risk.
False claims about a public company’s products and services relating to AI also might be part of apump-and-dumpscheme where fraudsters profit at the expense of unsuspecting investors. In a pump-and-dump scheme, promoters try to “pump” up, or increase, the stock price of a company by spreading positive, but false, information, usually online through ads, fake news coverage, or social media promotions. These rumors often cause many investors to buy the stock, driving the price of the stock up. Then the promoters or others working with them “dump” their own shares before the hype ends. Typically, after the promoters profit from their sales, the stock price drops, and the remaining investors lose most of their money.
Microcap stocks, some of which are penny stocks or nano cap stocks, may be particularly vulnerable to investment schemes, including scams involving AI-related claims. Microcap stocks are low-priced stocks issued by the smallest of companies. There’s often limited publicly available information about microcap companies’ management, products, services and finances. This can make it easier for fraudsters to spread false information about a company and profit at the expense of unsuspecting investors.
Celebrity Endorsements.It’s never a good idea to make an investment decision just because someone famous says a product or service is a good investment. Increasing numbers of investors are using social media to research opportunities and connect with others.Influencers have taken notice, and social media has become more saturated with financial content than ever before, leading to the rise of the financial influencer or “finfluencer.”While celebrities and other well-known personalities might be very good at what they do in their respective professions, a celebrity endorsement doesn’t mean that an investment is legitimate or that it’s appropriate for all investors. Ask yourself: “Why is this person endorsing this investment, and does it fit in my financial plan?”
Steps you can take to protect yourself:
Fraudsters can use AI technology to clone voices, alter images and even create fake videos to spread false or misleading information. AI technology might be used to impersonate a family member or friend, with the intent to convince an investor to transfer money or securities out of an investment account. For example, some scam artists are using AI-generated audio—also known as “deepfake” audio—to try to lure older investors into thinking a grandchild is in financial distress and need of money. Scammers might use deepfake videos to imitate the CEO of a company announcing false news in an attempt to manipulate the price of a stock, or might use AI technology to produce realistic looking websites or marketing materials to promote fake investments or fraudulent schemes. In addition, we regularly see bad actors impersonating SEC staff and other government officials.
Steps you can take to protect yourself:
Be cautious about using AI-generated information to make investment decisions or to attempt to predict changes in the stock market’s direction or in the price of a security. AI-generated information might rely on data that is inaccurate, incomplete, or misleading. For example, it could be based on false or outdated information about financial, political, or other news events. Or it could draw from false or misleading information that was disseminated to try to manipulate a stock’s price (either positively or negatively). Even when based on accurate input, information resulting from AI can be faulty, or even completely made up.
Depending on how it’s presented, AI-generated information—particularly conversations with chatbots—could lead you to make misinformed, emotionally-driven or impulsive investment decisions, which can be a risky way to approach investing.
Steps you can take to protect yourself:
Investor Alert: Social Media and Investment Fraud
Investor Alert: Identity Theft, Data Breaches and Your Investment Accounts
Investor Bulletin: Performance Claims
Investor Alert: Exercise Caution with Crypto Asset Securities
Call OIEA at 1-800-732-0330, ask a questionusing this online form, or email the SEC at[email protected].
Contact NASAA throughits contact form, or call 202-737-0900. Visitnasaa.orgfor more investor education information and news.
Call FINRA toll-free at 844-57-HELPS (844-574-3577), and visitFINRA.org/investorsto learn more about investing.
Receive Investor Alerts and Bulletins from OIEA byemailorRSS feed. Follow OIEA onX. Like OIEA onFacebook.
This Investor Alert represents the views of the staff of the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy. It is not a rule, regulation, or statement of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”). The Commission has neither approved nor disapproved its content. This Alert, like all staff statements, has no legal force or effect: It does not alter or amend applicable law, and it creates no new or additional obligations for any person.
NASAA has provided this information as a service to investors. It is neither a legal interpretation nor an indication of a policy position by NASAA or any of its members, the state and provincial securities regulators. If you have questions concerning the meaning or application of a particular state law or rule or regulation, or a NASAA model rule, statement of policy or other materials, please consult with an attorney who specializes in securities law.